# Reflective: E-lit II

#### Anson Huang 

### The Generational Transition of Webcomics

For this week, I want to discuss an electronic medium that is near and dear to my heart, webcomics, because as we were trying to classify Twitterbots and other works that we found, I had a fair amount of trouble trying to abide by Flores' classifications for second and third generation e-literature. As a really diverse medium that has been around for a while now, I think webcomics are a good illustration of how e-literature has changed and why the distinctions that Flores presents can get complicated. The number of indie artists and writers that get into making online webcomics mean that there are a variety of approaches, and to add further complexity, webcomics creators have begun to form collectives of uniform publishing that have distinctly new characteristics but hold the same core content. Flores's definition of second generation e-lit follows as such: *"The second generation begins with the Web in 1995 and continues to the present, consisting of innovative works created with custom interfaces and forms, mostly published in the open Web,"* while third generation e-lit focuses on accessible forms: *"The third generation, starting from around 2005 to the present, uses established platforms with massive user bases, such as social media networks, apps, mobile and touchscreen devices, and Web API services. This third generation coexists with the previous one and accounts for a massive scale of born digital work produced by and for contemporary audiences for whom digital media has become naturalized."* If we center the qualifications on second-generation e-lit as "custom interfaces" and "open Web publishing", with third-generation e-lit as "naturalized digital work" and "established platforms", then I think webcomics and webcomic platforms are a good example of where this distinction blurs.

For example, indie artists when starting out may have their own website, like [Octopus Pie](http://www.octopuspie.com/), running for 10 years before its conclusion in 2017. As a unique entity on its own site and navigation system, Octopus Pie solidly falls in second generation e-lit. On the other hand, other artists post to newer publishing platforms like [WEBTOON](https://www.webtoons.com/en/), which hosts a large number of webcomics and has exploded in popularity since its conception in 2005. WEBTOON also has an app where users can subscribe to whatever comics they like. The app has a uniform navigational interface across all comics, splitting them into "episodes" and keeping all pages in a single vertical scroll before moving to the next episode. Thus, for a WEBTOON comic like [Lore Olympus](https://www.webtoons.com/en/romance/lore-olympus/list?title_no=1320), which publishes natively on a platform that a mass of readers are (probably) using for other content, the third generation category fits better. But what about webcomics that cross-publish both independently and on platforms? This is a common strategy for webcomic artists trying to maximize their exposure. For example, [Countdown to Countdown](https://ctccomic.com/) publishes on WEBTOON, another platform known as Tapas, and on an independent site. Others post webcomic updates on an independent site and on social media platforms, like [Check Please](https://checkpleasecomic.com/), which posts on an independent site and on Tumblr. Should these works be classified as both second-gen and third-gen e-lit? I'm not sure I can support Flores' classification if the same contemporary work can fit in both second and third generation definitions depending on where it's cross-posted.

Aside from the mode of publishing, sometimes the content itself also begins to complicate the generational boundaries. Consider the [Pentametron twitterbot](https://twitter.com/pentametron), which we discussed in class. It retweets content it finds on Twitter that forms iambic pentameter lines, and makes sure the order of its retweets generates a rhyme scheme. While the retweets over time can be read just as they come into the Twitterstream, the real meaning of the content only shines through when scrolling through the user profile. Though the platform corresponds with third generation e-lit, Pentametron makes use of the platform in an unusual way and calls on the reader to learn how to interact with its content, which is very much a second generation characteristic. So works like this use the platforms and circulate the same way as third generation e-lit, but the content and reading methods of the work are more second generation. Additionally, we can look at xkcd, a well-known webcomic that innovatively plays with form for some one-off comics. [Right Click](<https://xkcd.com/1975/>), which holds multitudes of thoughts (including a choose-your-own-adventure story) in a single right-click menu, and [Click and Drag](<https://xkcd.com/1110/>), in which readers can explore a massive illustrated world through clicking and dragging a small box, are examples where the content is technically second generation in that it has a unique form, but also follows third generation accessibility guidelines by having readers access the work through mechanisms that are extremely common in the modern day. These also bring some complexity in his classifications.

I recognize that I might be overly harsh on Flores' work here; the second/third generation classification *is* helpful in recognizing and grouping traits to show how trends in e-lit have changed over time. But we also need to understand that that's all they are: trends. Flores himself recognizes that second and third generation e-lit are being simultaneously generated today, but the second generation e-lit in 2019 often doesn't look the same as it did in 1995. I think when we classify literature like this, it can erroneously bias us to think that works in the same generation are similar, when e-lit's diversity is one of its most important characteristics. So when talking about e-lit, Flores' classifications are good, but we need to be constantly going beyond them and thinking about works at a more specific level to really understand what makes them unique.