# Reflective: What Is A Book?

#### Anson Huang

One of the themes that I took away from our discussion on The Book and from our visit to the NU Archives is that the roles of print and digitized text in book preservation are strongly flexible. On one hand, we were able to see many books from the archives that had lasted several centuries without degrading a significant amount, due to the materials they were made from or the care that was taken with them. But as we know from previous readings like the Livingston article on the four oldest poetic codices in English, or even just historical events like the loss of the library of Alexandria, not all books get to survive in physical form. On the other hand, The Book detailed a lot of modern libraries and preservation efforts that go digital with their records, which extends their access and their lifespan, should the physical books not last forever. But hard drives fail, files get deleted, or some books will die digital deaths by design. For example, Borsuk's book in the Archives that contains nothing but QR codes readable by a website could one day be unsupported by future technology, at which point the book is useless on its own. Both physical and digital formats play different roles, and they exist on a spectrum in how well they are able to preserve their contents.

Another point that I found interesting in the discussion was one definition of a book in The Book that said the book is a political tool. On first read I found the saying outrageous, especially without further context, because my idea of a book was that they are for information and enjoyment, not propaganda. However, after we looked at the many editions of the geography textbook and discussed the racist and biased descriptions of people from other countries found within its pages, I was able to put the quote in larger context to understand that a book does not have to be direct propaganda to be biased. Humans are political creatures, with opinions and worldviews of their own, and authors reflect those views in the information they write down or in the stories they tell.

Finally, I was interested in the role of interactivity as the book has changed throughout history. The Book goes back in time to Aristotle's days, discussing how he feared the rise of the book when authors would not be there to defend their views in person or correct any of the reader's alternative interpretations. Yet, in the Renaissance that separation became crucial to rational discussion; the book became interactive, not between reader and author, but with each other. In the modern day, as the book has become an experience for all the senses, we see more interactivity between reader and "interface," as Borsuk puts it. For example, Borsuk discussed an e-book that requires the reader to tap or drag to reveal more multimedia elements like pictures or sounds; these are not necessarily interacting with the author about their ideas, but rather with the interface as an crucial element of reading.