# Reflective: Fabrication II

#### Anson Huang 

This week's readings, discussions, and activities have me thinking about the ethics of creating. Obviously, writers and bookmakers have ethical choices to make with the content of their writing and the messages they send to audiences, which we often discuss in critical literary analyses of these works. However, the chapter "Thinking as Handwork" delves deeper into ethical considerations in the physical act of making, which is an interesting aspect of the process that I hadn't put much thought into before. The primary focus of ethical concerns in "Thinking as Handwork" is 3-D printing, particularly as it pertains to museums. 3-D printing can emit harmful gases and plastic particles into the air as it prints, which poses an environmental problem as well as a more direct hazard to artifacts and museumgoers if 3-D printers are used within the museum space.

This was particularly salient to me because my book project has involved quite a bit of 3-D printing. Over the weeks of rigorous design testing and adjustments, I've gone through 5 different plastic printed templates for use in the letterpress. Most likely, I'll throw the prototypes away once my project is done. Between the emissions of printing and the plastic waste generated that will be going to landfills, this project definitely poses some ethical issues for the environment. However, these issues are also present in other forms of making and book generation. Consider traditional codex book publishing, which as a process [generates 40+ metric tons of CO2 per year.](<https://www.greenmatters.com/news/2017/09/15/1vvQRq/publishing-sustainable>) Or this week, when we worked with colorful LEDs in circuitry, some of those LEDs (blue ones) were made with indium and gallium, metals which are extracted through mining the Earth's crust and could be depleted in the future as electronics demand increases. The processes that contribute to any form of makership are often associated with some form of waste or resource usage, so we need to think critically about what processes we use regardless of whether the technology is brand-new or ages-old.

If every form of makership has ethical downsides for the environment we live in, then we can't criticize just one technology for its problems, like "Thinking as Handwork" did in its analysis of 3-D printing. Instead, it's worth thinking about the technology holistically, with its harmful parts, but also how it contributes positively to makership and society, and being able to compare it with other technologies. In "Bibliocircuitry", our other reading this week, the authors brought up how the act of learning and designing with technology can be valuable just in what the researcher learns, which is something I've experienced with the design of my 3-D template, despite the waste that the prototypes produced. Similarly, the waste produced by the book industry could be lowered, but the educational, cultural, and historical value of books as a format is a major plus towards bookmaking as a technology. However, comparing these two technologies is an extremely difficult task. Weighing their ethical impacts requires a prioritization of values like environmental preservation, pollution, culture, dissemination of knowledge, which often vary based on the person. That means that this is an ethical discussion that we will need to have continuously as technology and bookmaking progress throughout the future.