# Reflective: Book Alterities

#### Anson Huang 

Having experienced many different types of alternate book forms in class this week, I have a better sense of how authors transmit meaning without necessarily relying on the traditional format. I thought this was especially clear by the books that were about violence, like the folded timeline or *1000 Coordinates of Violence*. These bookworks use non-text visuals as a guide, even though text would communicate the content just fine; "Only one year in history has been free of major conflict" would be much more succinct than putting together a folded accordion itemizing every major conflict in history and highlighting the one peaceful year. But the message itself hits differently when presented as a timeline. When I was reading this book, there was significant meaning derived in the time spent looking through the timeline, thinking *there must be more than one highlighted year here!* and then coming to the stunning realization that there wasn't. Similarly, in *1000 Coordinates of Violence*, the plain hole representing a gunshot in every page accompanied by only a coordinate set could easily have been done with a text description of each recorded instance. But the format emphasized to me how each of these instances was so similar at the core: senseless and repetitive. The messages these books sent went beyond what words could do and had a much greater impact due to their unusual formats. 

I didn't agree much with Carrión's "The New Art of Making Books"; I found his ideas novel and interesting, but three steps too far beyond what I could get behind. However, after our trip to the NU Archives, I understand the basis of his ideas better. One of his central ideas is that a book is more than words; *"A book is a space-time sequence."* Books like the artist's books held at the NU Archive exemplify in their many different forms that books can be beyond text, and that reading a book is as much about the reader's physical experience as it is their mental stimulation. Another of Carrión's quotes, though, is contradicted by the NU Archive collection. According to Carrión, *"A book of 500 pages, or of 100 pages, or even of 25, wherein all the pages are similar, is a boring book considered as a book, no matter how thrilling the content of the words of the text printed on the pages might be."* I understand where he comes from; we shouldn't be limiting our concept of books to those in codex form with text from cover to cover. There is plenty to explore in altered formats. However, he completely discounts all books of uniform composition, which we saw a number of during our visit. For example, *1000 Coordinates of Violence* followed a uniform format, as did an art book juxtaposing a series of shapes on different colored backgrounds. Both these books illustrated concepts from front cover to back cover in the same way, but that doesn't mean they're boring. A book doesn't have to be ten different styles at once to be an interesting physical experience for a reader.

Finally, I want to talk about how we engage with these unusual book forms. Because they're so different, it's easy to only focus on their shape and analyze how that affects us, but it's worth explicitly acknowledging that as books, their content is subject to critical analysis too. In previous reflective entries, I've discussed how [books are political](https://github.com/prof-cordell-classes/f19-bbb-fieldbook-ansonh713/blob/master/reflective/2019-09-21-reflective-WhatIsABook.md) and products of the cultures that created them and their authors' biases. This was especially salient to me during class this week as I excitedly flipped through the artist's book on world languages. Each page contained International Phonetic Alphabet diagrams of a different language's vowel and consonant inventory and connected the dots like constellations. I found it to be a really interesting and diverse project, so naturally I was surprised to find the section on "Chinese" with no further elaboration. Mouthing the vowels based on the diagram, I was able to identify the language as Mandarin Chinese. Obviously, there are cultural nuances in China that can't be addressed in 2 pages of diagrams. But as someone whose family is from southern China, where Cantonese is the prevailing dialect (distinctly separate from Mandarin), I think it sends disheartening messages to see a whole family of languages painted with the same brush, especially when the author took the time to specify the dialect of Urdu that was being portrayed in a different diagram. This isn't a personal failing of the author; plenty of people don't know that "Chinese" is a broad family of mutually unintelligible languages. However, it struck me that even when the forms of books change drastically, it behooves us to be mindful of what biases go into making these works and what messages we might be receiving as we engage with this content.

