# Reflective: Zines

#### Anson Huang

### In Defense of the Internet re: Zines

The strongest impression that stuck with me from this week's discussion and activities is the reasons that some zines stay private. When I read the [Zine Librarians Code of Ethics](https://zinelibraries.info/code-of-ethics/), I saw lots of clauses on being respectful of the zine creator's intentions and feelings on making their work available to a broader audience, like this one:

*"Because of the often highly personal content of zines, creators may object to having their material being publicly accessible... To some, exposure to a wider audience is exciting, but others may find it unwelcome."*

That some zines might have sensitive content was understandable to me, so I didn't think too hard about it. But in discussion, we got more into alternative reasons that zines might be limited access, on purpose or by nature.

For example, we talked about zines meant for certain communities, like African-Americans or LGBTQ+ people, that aren't as understandable or won't go over well with community outsiders. These zines circulate by being passed off to friends or from community hubs, so they don't go far beyond their intended audience. This made me think of a piece of social media history I learned in Intro to Communications: the discovery of Black Twitter. When social media was still emerging and in the early stages of being studied, researchers were extremely surprised by a key piece of data that they found: a disproportionate amount of African Americans were on Twitter as opposed to other social networks, and Twitter had a disproportionate number of African American users. (I wish I could find the original study and infographics we looked at, but I'll have to settle for linking to [this data from Pew Research Center](https://www.pewinternet.org/2014/01/06/detailed-demographic-tables/) that shows that though white and black teens both have high social media usage, black teens are much more likely to be on Twitter.) When they did a more in-depth analysis on their surprising findings, they discovered that this African American community made up almost an entire separate userbase that was hardly interacting with "mainstream" Twitter, but instead with each other, with different key figures, topics of discussion, and modes of interacting. Black Twitter is as public as mainstream Twitter, but it's hard to really get into unless you're a member of the community and know who to follow and interact with. To me, this public-but-not-that-public form of community echoes the selectivity that some zines had (and perhaps some still do but we just don't know about it!).  

Another reason for private zines that came up in discussion is their potential for use as a tool for organizers to spread info without interference from the government. For example, subversive or government-critical groups might use physical zines to let others know about news or discourse that the government would otherwise suppress, especially in countries that lack free speech rights. A digital cousin of this system would be the dark web, a part of the internet that is invisible to common users and is only accessible to those who know how to get there, often through a specialized anonymous internet browser. I found [this basic article](https://www.csoonline.com/article/3249765/what-is-the-dark-web-how-to-access-it-and-what-youll-find.html) from CSO on what the dark web is and what it gets used for. Unsurprisingly, anonymity lends itself a lot to cybercrime, but the dark web also has plenty of legitimate uses, as evidenced by this quote from the article:

*The Tor network began as an anonymous communications channel, and it still serves a valuable purpose in helping people communicate in environments that are hostile to free speech. “A lot of people use it in countries where there’s eavesdropping or where internet access is criminalized,” Tiquet said.*

The dark web is an especially useful medium for people who would be persecuted for saying the wrong thing to talk more freely, which is really reminiscent of what some zines were used for (and again, maybe those zines still exist and we just don't know about them!).  

So, a lot of the reason I'm bringing up these digital examples is because I think they help illustrate why I was so frustrated by the New York Times article, ["Why the Internet Didn't Kill Zines"](https://www.nytimes.com/2017/02/28/magazine/why-the-internet-didnt-kill-zines.html) from the reading prep this week. The theme that I got out of reading Wortham's article is how social media is too shallow and restrictive to allow the intimate freedom of expression that physical zines do. And having made my own short zine this week (mine was rife with inside jokes and memes about my fictional video game character's journey to become a major league baseball player), I absolutely understand that zines are a great physical medium to be intimate and real with a small audience. But I don't think it's productive to be putting down the internet for its flaws when digital media can absolutely fill some of those niches that zines have been used for in the past. Just because Twitter has limited characters doesn't make the community that's formed there shallower or less well-formed. And if no one else is in the room to see a mainland Chinese journalist log on to the dark web, well, maybe it's for the best that there aren't any witnesses to their dissemination of anti-authoritarian thoughts usually suppressed by government surveillance.  

Even with zines that don't stay private, I'm inclined to point to artists and writers I follow on Twitter or Tumblr. These creators fund their work, get their names out, share their messages with 100 or 100K followers, produce personal themed zines, collaborate with other creators, or a dozen other creators, or *two* dozen other creators, put out collaborative fanzines on fictional characters they love and relate to, and distribute them to devoted communites, small and large. How do they do that? The internet! Social media! They form artist's communities, create bonds with other artists, share each other's work with their own small following, make intimate comics for specific communities, and organize and fund physical works like zines *through social media*. Of course the internet didn't kill zines - they're mediums working in tandem. Yes, the internet has flaws, but anyone arguing that social media is not a place where people are creative, intimate, expressive, diverse, community-building, and having real manifest effects on the world, is just not looking in the right places.