# Reading Prep: Binding

#### Anson Huang

## Questions or Observations

1. I thought Ricardo Dantas's choice of lay-flat binding for his book was really unique, especially in how he handled the design problems that came up. Of lay-flat binding he says: *"With back to back glued spreads we could achieve this notion of continuity and also have as an object a book that lays completely flat without mid-spread interruptions. But then comes an issue to deal with, following this solution, gluing together the spreads, we eventually end up with a cover and back cover actually thinner than the inner pages."* I wonder, though, why it is that we find it wrong to have a front/back cover be the same size/thinner than the pages inside? Is it just convention that affects our design choices, or does having unusual proportions negatively affect our reading experience? It also leaves me curious about different binding modes. We've already covered a bit of folio-style and accordion-style bindings from our readings in Borsuk's *The Book*. What other alternative binding modes are there, and how does that shape our experience with reading a book?

2. One of themes I noticed running through the readings is the idealization of the physicality of books. In "Baxter's Procustes," Chesnutt satirizes how that idealization can result in shallow commodification of a book's physical presence as opposed to the content inside. After Baxter's book is revealed to be empty as his stand against sealed and uncut books, the Bodleian Club doubles down on their stance that the vehicle is of the highest importance: *"To the true collector, a book is a work of art, of which the contents are no more important than the words of an opera."* The Bodleian Club goes to the absurd in idolizing the mint condition and material components of Baxter's book, shallowly ignoring the lack of content. Additionally, the Driscoll and Squires piece notes how *"The smell of books has become its own commodifiable property—a trope that can be invoked to badge oneself as a book lover."* In other words, few people take time to specifically take in the smell of books, but they say that to make themselves seem like "real" book-lovers, since it speaks to the physical experience. On the other hand, Dantas's article on his book shows how this focus on the material properties of books can be used to create a new experience, since his work on custom designing the book used creative strategies to make it stand out to readers as a more physical experience.

3. In Petit's article, Lindsey Schmittle says, *"Just about anything can be raised to type-high and printed."* By Schmittle's example, natural found objects that are transformed in unusual ways to book form creates a different textural experience. But why is texture important? What does texture evoke in us, anyways, and how is it applied to alter the experience of reading books?