# Book Project Proposal

#### Anson Huang

## A Series of Familiar Events

--**The Project**--  
I propose, for my book project, a set of laminated cards, boxed and unbound so that the cards can be exchanged and shuffled. On each card will be a plot point, complete with title, illustration, and brief description. I leave it to the reader to determine how exactly to engage with this story deck, but I imagine one reader's experience would go something like this: The reader draws a card from the shuffled deck, reads the card, and begins to tell a story about an adventure happening in a far off fantasy land. The reader continues to draw cards, unknowing of what will appear, but works them into the story as they come. The random drawing of cards adds some twists and turns; maybe the reader's story finds triumph in one card, only to flee the country in the next moment. The deck, then, is an exercise in creativity for the reader, challenging them to pull together tropes and events that follow unusual patterns. Another reader might draw only three cards and recall a story of their own past based on the imagery they see. The deck, then, tells a story that the reader already knows, but perhaps frames it in a new light, or allows the reader to see commonalities that their story shares with many others. In any case, I want this book project to give life to some stories that we might have written off as boring or already-been-told, by breaking stories down into common elements and tropes and letting us see them in new ways: temporally, symbolically, or interactively.   

Primarily, I want the content of this book project to be tropes drawn from adventure, fantasy, or mystical genres, but ultimately be applicable to a variety of readers. For example, I'd like to include a card about the beginning of a journey, which can pull from fantasy imagery, but the idea itself can be found anywhere. Another example is the tarot card Two of Cups, which symbolizes relationships and has really rich imagery as a tarot card. Material-wise, I want this book project to be done with the letterpress, on sturdy laminated cardstock, with illustrations done by hand in pen.  

--**The Plan**--  
Currently, to print the cards, my plan is to 3-D print a template with holes in it that lines of type can fit into, for the title and description, then use the template to print each card. After speaking to Professor Cordell on my options for 3-D printing, I am considering using a modeling software like Solidworks to directly 3-D print a plastic template, or a 2-D design software that can be turned into a woodcut block by Northeastern resources. Both of these are tools I can learn to use from my peers in engineering or art, or I may ask them to help me with the creation if I'm struggling, though I would ideally like to complete this project on my own. Luckily, once the template is made, I won't need to use the software much more, so I can learn just enough to make the template without taking up too much more of my time.   

The template will need plastic from a 3-D printer or wood that I can buy and lasercut from a local craft shop or a Home Depot, while the cardstock and lamination can be bought from arts and crafts shops like Blick. Equipment like woodcutting and 3-D printing is available on campus from Snell Library or CAMD, and I will be using the Huskiana letterpress to print the cards.  

--**The Goals**--

My goal for this project is to give old tropes new life by introducing rich imagery and symbolism and creative ways to interact with them. Though I can't measure that, and I can't fully predict whether the effects of this project will be what I imagine, my evaluation of the project will depend on how well I carried out the physical concept. The minimum number of cards that I think this project needs in order to work the way I planned is 12 to 15. I'd like to aim for:
* 20 cards of high quality, 
* with titles, illustrations, and descriptions that show thought and care into the symbolism of the card,
* made using a template block that I design in a modeling software.  

Additionally, I should have an artist statement and be ready to present by December 2nd in order to achieve my expectations for this project.